Now, before we jump into testing Spring,
I'm gonna take a little sidetrack in this
video and we are gonna introduce
Bootstrap CSS. Bootstrap is like one of
the largest, most popular frameworks for
websites or web application development
for CSS. I like Bootstrap because it
makes me look like a genius when I'm
developing websites. It's very easy to
use. We're gonna do a little crash
course here on Bootstrap and refactor
our web page to utilize Bootstrap CSS
because it kind of annoys me to have an
ugly web page. So let's get a really nice
looking web page and I'm gonna show
you exactly how we can start using
Bootstrap for our little web project
here. Alright, in this video what we wanna
do is start using Bootstrap. Now
Bootstrap is probably the most
popular CSS framework out there. And
right now, at the time of recording, 3.3.7
is released. They are working on
Bootstrap 4. It's not released at the
time of recording. But Bootstrap 3 has
been out for a long time and it's stable and
I like it because it makes the worst web
developers look like geniuses in
setting up their websites. It's very easy
to use, it's a grid-based
system. And the course isn't specifically
on Bootstrap but we are gonna
leverage it because I wanna make that
a little web page that we have to look a
little bit nicer. And so we'll get a
little bit of experience but keep in
mind I'm not training you on Bootstrap
CSS in this course. So what I wanna do
is I'm gonna take advantage of
Bootstrap CDN. We can utilize this and
I'm going to cut and paste it right on
over to our index page. And of course we
want to put that in the header. That didn't
take. What I wanna do is copy that.
Let's see if I get on my clipboard this
time. Alright so this is gonna bring
in that and I do not. Let's skip
that optional thing. Let's just keep this
generic Bootstrap. I'm gonna take a
minute and refactor this. To use
Bootstrap, I'll step through that. I'm
gonna pause the video for a second
and be right back and we'll have a nice
looking web page to see. Okay I've gone
in and fast word a little bit. I've
updated the CSS or the styling in the
HTML to give us a little more robust
looking application. So it's a little bit
nicer for us to work with and I've updated
HTML to use Bootstrap. So let's take a
quick look. I'll show you what we did. So
this is how we looked before and I am
taking advantage right now of the Thymeleaf's Natural Templating engine. So I am
viewing the HTML in the browser. I clicked
on I'll show you if you do this in
IntelliJ, if you click on the browser
link, it's gonna open up in the
browser and you can see that it actually
runs off a port which is kind of
interesting that IntelliJ does it that
way rather than opening up the file
directly. So this is running through
IntelliJ but it is the direct HTML file
being displayed inside of Chrome. And
let's go in and do a refresh. So I added
this in and so this is how it looked
previously. This is how it now looks with
the Bootstrap styling. So I am gonna go through
and show you the changes that I made. So
we saw the addition of the CSS
and I'm using a CDN right now and that's
a convenient way. And coming up, we'll
switch over to using web JARs but we
wanna have the CDN and therefore the
Natural Templating engine. So what's
gonna happen in the next video, I'll show
you how to set up the web JARs and we'll
replace this at runtime with the
Bootstrap files out of the web JARs. But
we'll do that in the next video. First,
let's take a look at what we set up for
Bootstrap. Now I did on line 18, we're
doing a div there container-fluid
and I'm giving it a little margin 20px
bump off the top because when I was
looking at it. Originally this was right
up against the top. So give it a little
space there making it look a little bit
nicer. Then the way Bootstrap is working
it does a grid layout. So line 19, I
declare a row and then on line 20, I'm
saying make the panel give this
content six columns. So it uses a
12 column grid. I'm saying make it six and
offset it by three. That's what the
second CSS class does there. So it's
gonna offset by three being a 12
column layout and so we'll have 3, 6 and
3 so that adds up to 12. So our content
will be centered. That's what we want to
do there. Then next, we have the
panel-primary and what this is gonna do is
give us basically the rounded panel. So
all the stuff around here. Then we have
the panel-heading saying My Recipes! and
that gives us this blue block here
around My Recipes! and the h1 text. And
actually we can do just look at my
example that I shamelessly stole this
from. We can actually add in a class here
called panel-title. And that should make
that look a little bit nicer. Let's
refresh that. Yeah, that looks a little
bit nicer. So now we have a panel title
so this looks a bit nicer than it did
before. And now the next div
there online 26, the panel-body. That is
what sets up this area here everything
below the header. And then we want
the class table-responsive and there
on line 27 we have another Thymeleaf tag.
We're gonna be utilizing that and
we're saying if list not empty. So if we
get an empty list we're not gonna
display the table. So if nothing comes
back from the backend, this table does
not get displayed. Next there on line
28, we have table and table-hover. So that
gives us the styling and what's nice
about the table-hover CSS in Bootstrap,
as you can see it gives us this effect. So as we hover over, the rows highlight.
So that's a nice aesthetic for your
users. Then we also have table-inverse. So
that's what helps the inverse as
we roll over. And let's see here.
And I have the table headers.
So give table row the ID and
Description there and this is another
Thymeleaf tag here. So because we're
leveraging the Natural Templating, I
wanna have in items for Tasty
Goodness one, two, and three. Now let's make
these a little bit different. So now
we'll get different ID values there and
what we're telling the Thymeleaf
templating engine do is to remove
these blocks at runtime. So we're saying
I'm putting it in there now for to
preserve the Natural Templating because
I wanna see how that table looks. So I
wanna get a couple of rows in there so I
can mouse over and see the effects that
we're getting. So this is just pure HTML
that we're running right now. And then
down here, this is the one that gets
replaced by Thymeleaf. So if we have one
recipe or five recipes or 100 recipes, it
will loop through that and create this
block for each one. But we can only use
that once to tell it to repeat that. So
for the ones that we're doing for our
styling is working with HTML, we're gonna
remove those. Alright, let's go ahead
and start this up in Spring Boot and we
shall take a look at the difference. So Spring Boot is coming up, and we are up
and running on 8080. Let's toggle over
to Chrome. Here's our template, we still have
the old up here. Let's do a refresh and
now we can see that we are rendering out
of the database and getting our two
items that are displayed with the pretty
CSS formatting.